---
layout: post
title: Munkres Countability and Separation Axioms (30-36)
date: 2023-05-10 19:23
category: math
tags: ['Munkres','Topology', 'separation','urysohn','manifold']
---
We will go through some of the useful results.

# Lemma 31.1
Let $\xx$ be a $T_1$ topological space.

- $\xx$ is regular iff for every point $x$ and open neighbourhood $U$ of $x$, we can find another open neighbourhood $V$ that hides in $U$,

$$
x\in V\subseteq\cl{V}\subseteq U
$$

- $\xx$ is normal iff for any closed set $K$ and an open neighbourhood $U$ of $K$, we can find another open neighbourhood $V$ that hides in $U$.

$$
K\in V\subseteq\cl{V}\subseteq U
$$

Proof for regularity: Suppose $\xx$ is regular ($T_3$), let the pair $x,U$ be arbitrary so $x\in U$, where $U$ is open. The complement of $U$ is closed, so $x$ is disjoint from $U^c$. By regularity, we can find open sets $V$ and $W$ that separate $x$ from $U^c$. 

$$
\begin{cases}
x\in V\\
U^c\subseteq W
\end{cases}
$$

We claim that $\cl{V}$ is disjoint from $W$ (hence disjoint from $U^c$). Indeed, if $y$ is an adherent point of $V$, every open set of $y$ must contain some point in $V$, so it cannot be an interior point of $W$; $y\notin U^c$. Taking complements reads

$$
    x\in V\subseteq\cl{V}\subseteq U
$$

Conversely, fix a point $x$ and a disjoint closed set $K$. $x$ is in $K^c$, which is open. By assumption, there exists some open $V$,

$$
    x\in V\subseteq\ \underbrace{\cl{V}}_{\text{closed set}} \subseteq K^c
$$

So $V$ and $\cl{V}^c$ are open, disjoint sets that contain $x$ and $K$ respectively. 

Proof for normalcy: Let $\xx$ be normal, and $K$, $U$ be closed and open subsets , and $K\subseteq U$. $K$ and $U^c$ are disjoint closed sets, so we can 'wrap' them in open sets $V$ and $W$.

$$
\begin{cases}
K\subseteq V\\
U^c\subseteq W
\end{cases}\implies K\subseteq V\subseteq\cl{V}\subseteq\underbrace{W^c}_{\text{ignore this}}\subseteq U
$$

To prove the converse, fix two closed, disjoint sets $A$, $B$.

$$
A\subseteq B^c\induces \underbrace{A\subseteq U}_{\text{open supset of} A}\subseteq \underbrace{\cl{U} \subseteq B^c}_{\text{take complements}}
$$

Define $V = {\cl{U}}^c$, and $U$ and $V$ are disjoint, open sets that separate $A$ and $B$.

# Theorem 31.2
- A subspace of a Hausdorff space is again Hausdorff, the product of Hausdorff spaces is again Hausdorff.
- A subspace of a regular space is again regular, the product of regular spaces is again regular.


Commentary: A lot of these Theorems involve identifying the exact mechanism behind which the properties of the $\xx_\alpha$ propagate through to the product space $\prod \xx_\alpha$. Usually this involves 'passing the argument' to the basis of $\prod \xx_\alpha$.


$$
\bigset{\pnv{\alpha}{U_\alpha},\: U_\alpha \text{ open in }\xx_\alpha}
$$

Proof for Hausdorff: The first is trivial, the second involves sending $x,y\in\prod_{\alpha\in A}\xx_\alpha$ into an individual $\xx_\alpha$, where $\pmap{\alpha}{x}\neq\pmap{\alpha}{y}$. Since $\xx_\alpha$ is Hausdorff, this induces two open disjoint sets Rel $\xx_\alpha$. Send these two sets back into the product $\prod_{\alpha\in A}\xx_\alpha$, and we are done.

Proof for Regular: The first is also trivial, the second involves taking complements and repeating the same argument.


## Exercises to try:

Exercies 1, 2, 5,7,8
Show that if $\xx$ is regular, distinct points admit disjoint closed neighbourhoods.

Show that if $\xx$ is normal, disjoint closed sets admit disjoint closed neighbourhoods.



# Theorem 32.1
Every regular space with a countable base is normal.

Commentary: Given disjoint closed sets $A$ and $B$, the proof exploits regularity of points within one of the sets, say $x$ ranges through all the points within $A$. So $x\in A\subseteq B^c$. What is important here is $x$ belongs to some open set $B^c$.

Use regularity to obtain an open neighbourhood $U_x$ that hides in $B^c$. Let $x$ run free across $A$, and collect all 

$$\{U_x,\: x\in U_x\subseteq\cl{U_x}\subseteq B^c\}$$ 

**passing the argument to the countable base**: for each $U_x$ induces some basis element $V_n$. The basis element $V_n$ is *squeezed* between $x$ and $U_x$, so $V_n$ is able to hide in $B^c$ as well.

It is clear that $A\subseteq \bigcup V_n$. Do the same for $B\subseteq \bigcup W_n$. These open sets are not necessarily disjoint, but we can make a simple modification. To this, we require:


*Every initial segment of a countable set is finite.*

From Munkres, we can trim the individual elements in the open sets. We also exploit 'regularity' of the basis elements. Roughly speaking, this means each $U_n$ and $V_n$ are similar in size compared to their closures.

$$
U'_n = \overbrace{U_n - \underbrace{\bigcup_{j\leq n}\cl{V_j}}_{\text{closed}}}^{\text{open}}\quad\text{ and }\quad V'_n = \overbrace{V_n - \underbrace{\bigcup_{j\leq n}\cl{U_j}}_{\text{closed}}}^{\text{open}}
$$

The pivotal step above only works because both initial segments are finite. The union over $U'_n$ and $V'_n$ must cover $A$ and $B$ respectively. To see this, notice

$$
U'_n = U_n - \underbrace{\bigcup_{j\leq n}\cl{V_j}}_{\text{not in }A}\quad\text{ and }\quad V'_n = V_n - \underbrace{\bigcup_{j\leq n}\cl{U_j}}_{\text{not in }B}
$$

So the 'trimming' process of the individual sets do not remove any points from $A$ and $B$. To show that 

$$
U = \bigcup U_n\quad\text{ and } V = \bigcup V_n \text{ are disjoint}
$$
If $x$ belongs in both, this induces $U_j$ and $V_k$, after staring at the above formulas, we see that in both cases where $j\leq k$ and $j>k$, $x$ either gets removed in $U_j$, or gets removed in $V_k$. Therefore $x$ cannot belong to both sets at the same time.

> Question worth asking: how to generalize this last argument?


## Exercises

Exercises 1,2,3,4

- Show that a closed subspace of a normal space is again normal.
- Show that if $\prod \xx_\alpha$ is Hausdorff, regular, or normal, then so is every $\xx_\alpha$. Assuming none of the $\xx_\alpha$ are empty.
- Show that every locally compact Hausdorff space is regular.
- Show that every regular Lindelof space is normal. (This is very similar to the last proof)