---
layout: post
title: sources of structure functions
date: 2023-05-09 23:26
category: math
tags: ['folland','munkres','topology','urysohns lemma']
---
# Commentary
If $\xx$ is endowed with some structure, i.e if $\xx$ is a measure space, topological space, metric space, vector space. If $f: \xx\to \yy$ where $\yy$ is also endowed wtih the same type of structure; meaning if $\xx$ is a measure space, then so is $\yy$. One can speak of the ways we can construct these structure preserving functions.

## Measurable functions
Let $(\xx,\mcal)$ and $(\yy\,\ncal)$ be measurable spaces. The function $f$ is measurable iff $f^{-1}(E)\in \mcal$ for every $E\in\ncal$.

Notice the 'family of inverse images of $\ncal$ measurable sets' forms a $\sigma$-algebra on $\xx$. One can show this by 'moving' the intersection (or union), and the complement inside the inverse map $f^{-1}$. Denote the family of such inverse images by 

$$
\Psi = \bigset{f^{-1}(E),\: E\in\mcal}
$$

For completeness:
- $\varnothing\in\ncal\implies f^{-1}(\varnothing)=\varnothing\in\Psi$
- $\yy\in\ncal\implies f^{-1}(\yy)=\xx\in\Psi$,
- Let $\{f^{-1}(E_j)\}_{j\geq 1}\subseteq\Psi$ be a countable subcollection of sets in $\Psi$, then

$$
\bigcap_{j\geq 1} f^{-1}(E_j) = f^{-1}\biggl(\bigcap_{j\geq 1}E_j\biggr)\in\Psi
$$

the above is the aforementioned 'trick' of moving the intersection within $f^{-1}$.

- It is easy to see that $\psi$ is closed under complements, therefore $\Psi$ is a $\sigma$-algebra.

### Generating Sets
If $\Epsilon$ generates $\ncal$, we can exploit the behaviour of the inverse image to show the measurability of $f$ easily. The take-away here is that if the 'structure' of the range space $\yy$ is generated by some set, then it suffices to verify the inverse images of sets within the generating set 'fall' inside the pre-defined structure of $\xx$.



We will use Folland's Lemma 1.1 (more on this later), denote the family of inverse images from $\Epsilon$ by 

$$\Psi_\Epsilon = \bigset{f^{-1}(E),\: E\in\Epsilon}$$



**Remember:** $\Psi_\Epsilon$ is not necessarily $\sigma$-algebra over $\xx$. If $\Psi_\Epsilon\subseteq \mcal$, so is $\Psi_\ncal$

What is the 'bare minimum' of sets we must add to $\mcal_\Epsilon$ to make $\mcal_\Epsilon$ a $\sigma$-algebra that contains $\Epsilon$? Intuitively, we think of a $\sigma$-algebra is a family of sets which are 'countably' closed over intersections and unions, and complements.

See Folland Prop 1.23 for more details, the proof runs as follows: if $\alpha$ is a countable ordinal, then define $J_\alpha$ as the family of subsets which are either
- $\sigma$- unions of elements in $\Epsilon_\beta$, or
- complements of elements in $\Epsilon_\beta$

where $\beta < \alpha$, by invoking some well-ordering property of the generating set $\Epsilon$.  We then collect sets from every $E_\alpha$, and

$$
\mcal(\Epsilon) = \bigcup_{\alpha} \Epsilon_\alpha
$$
where $\alpha$ ranges through the countable ordinals.



### Product of measurable spaces
Often, each $\xx_\alpha$, $\alpha\in A$ is endowed with some structure $\mcal_\alpha$, a $\sigma$-algebra, for instance. We speak of the 'weakest' or coarsest structure that makes the projection maps $\pi_\alpha$ 'structure preserving'.

In some sense, the product structure is the 'coarsest' structure that inherits all of the interesting properties of each $\xx_\alpha$. To see that a map $f: \yy\to \xx$, where $\xx = \prod_{\alpha\in A}\xx_\alpha$ is endowed with the product $\sigma$-algebra, $f$ is measurable iff $\pi_\alpha f$ is measurable at each $\alpha$. So $f$ is 'product structure preserving' iff it is structure preserving after projecting $f$ onto $\xx_\alpha$ for all $\alpha$.

--- 

# Continuous functions
Let $(\xx,\Tau_\xx)$ and $(\yy, \Tau_\yy)$ be topological spaces. $f: \xx\to\yy$ is **continuous** iff fore very open set $U\subseteq\yy$, $f^{-1}(U)$ is open as well.

Whether a function 'preserves' the topology of the range space depends only on whether the inverse images $f^{-1}(U)$, where $U$ open in $\yy$ land within the topology of $\xx$ (the endowed structure). In general, if the structure of the domain is 'larger' (contains more sets), then $\yy^\xx$ houses more structure preserving maps.

Think of the structure that $\xx$ is equipped with as a 'target' for all inverse images

$$
A = \bigset{f^{-1}(U),\: U\in\Tau_\yy}
$$

If $\Tau_\xx$ and $\Tau_\xx'$ are topologies on $\xx$, with $\Tau_\xx'$ finer than $\Tau_\xx$, that is to say

$$
\Tau_\xx'\supseteq \Tau_\xx
$$

Then, $A\subseteq\Tau_\xx\implies A\subseteq \Tau_\xx'$, so every continuous function wrt $\Tau_\xx$ is continuous wrt $\Tau_\xx'$, since the target is 'larger'. In a word, if $\Tau_\xx'$ is finer than $\Tau_\xx$, then 

$$C(\Tau_\xx,\Tau_\yy)\subseteq C(\Tau_\xx',\Tau_\yy)$$.

The topology is generated by a family of sets $\Epsilon\subseteq \mathbb{P}(\yy)$ is precisely the **family of (arbitrary) unions of finite intersections** of elements in $\Epsilon$ (perhaps also attaching $\{ \varnothing,\yy \}$). (See discussion on the 'minimum' amount of sets for measurable spaces.)

If $\borel_\yy$ generates the topology over $\yy$, it suffices to verify every element within

$$
    A(\borel_\yy)=\bigset{f^{-1}(E),\: E\in\borel_\yy}
$$

lands 'on target', that is: $A(\borel_\yy)\subseteq\Tau_\xx$. This is because (similar to before) $A(\borel_\yy)$ is a topology on $\xx$. Similar statements hold for product topologies. We take only the finite intersections of inverse images of the projection maps $\pnv{\alpha}{\cdot}$

The name 'structure preserving map' is a misnomer, as it all of the aforementioned maps are not bijections. It just means the inverse images of every element in the range structure is defined in the 'domain structure'.

Furthermore, if $\xx = \yy$ is endowed with the same 'structure', the set of  functions which respect this structure form a semigroup. 

### Relative topology
If $E\subseteq\xx$, we define the subspace topology of $E$ (inherited from $\xx$), as the family of subsets

$$
\Tau_E = \bigset{U\cap E,\: U\in\Tau_\xx}
$$

as the family of open sets intersected with $E$. Many topological properties are preserved in this manner, for example: (see Munkres for more):
- If $\xx% is first (or second)-countable, so is $E$ in the subspace topology.
- If $\xx$ is separable, so is $E$,
- If a subset $K\subseteq\xx$ is compact Rel $\xx$, then $K\cap E$ is compact Rel $E$,
- If $\xx$ is Hausdorff, so is $E$,
- If 

Here are some examples (and ways to generate) continuous functions, (Munkres Prop 18.2)
- Every constant function $f(x)=y_0$ is continuous, $f: \xx\to\yy$, $y_0\in \yy$.
- The inclusion map is continuous.
- The composition of continuous functions is again continuous

---
## Linear maps
Is the following even true?

> $T\in L(\xx,\yy)$ between vector spaces $\xx,\yy$, not necessarily finite-dimensional iff $T$ is a vector space homomorphism.

Linear independence is something that is worth mentioning. The definition for linear independence reads a lot like the one for a conencted topological space.

> A subset $E\subseteq\xx$ is a linear independent set of vectors in $\xx$ iff the only vanshing combination is the trivial one

> A topological space is connected if the only open, disjoint union of $\xx$ is the trivial one. 

Finite dimensional vector spaces 'feel' compact. (elaborate later)


---

## word on compactness
Compactness is an intrinsic notion of a subset, and one of the few topological properties that are preserved under direct-images. If a subset is compact, its topological information can be derived from a finite number of points within the set; and this roughly means that some local properties (neighbourhood properties) can be extended to global properties valid across the entire set.

Some proof techniques involving compact sets include:
- 'Globalizing' local properties, since a compact set admits 'finitely many' anchor points. This is used in the proof for Arzela Ascoli (see Folland Chapter 4.6)

Examples:
- Continuity on a compact set implies uniform continuity
- 