---
layout: post
title: Munkres Metrization and Paracompactness (39-42)
date: 2023-05-10 19:23
tags: ['Munkres','Topology', 'paracompact']
---
# Locally Finite Definition
Let $\mathcal{A}$ be a collection of subsets of $\xx$. It is called **locally finite**, if every $p\in \xx$. We can find an open neighbourhood $U$ of $p$ that intersects only finitely many $\mathcal{A}$.

$$
U\cap E=\varnothing \text{ for all but finitely many } E \in \mathcal{A}
$$

**We do not require $\mathcal{A}$ to cover 
the space $\xx$.**

# Lemma 39.1
- subcollections of a locally finite collection is again locally finite.

Proof: take contrapositive

- the collection $\borel$ formed by the closures of elements in $\mathcal{A}$, is again locally finite

$$
\borel = \bigset{\cl{E},\: E\in\mathcal{A}}
$$

Proof: contrapositive again. Let $x\in \xx$ st every neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ intersects infinitely many $\cl{E_\alpha}$ from $\borel$. at every $\alpha$ with a non-trivial intersection, $U$ is a neighbourhood of some point $y_\alpha\in \cl{E_\alpha}$.

Since $y_\alpha$ is an adherent point of $E_\alpha$, we can find a $z_\alpha\in E_\alpha\cap U$. Hence every neighbourhood of $x$ intersects infinitely many $E_\alpha$, and $\mathcal{A}$ is not locally finite.

- claim 3: the closure of the 'region' covered by elements in $\mathcal{A}$, is equal to the 'region' covered by elements in $\borel$. more precisely:

$$
\underbrace{\cl{\bigcup_{E\in\mathcal{A}} E}}_{\cl{Y}} = \underbrace{\bigcup_{E\in\mathcal{A}}\cl{E}}_{\text{elements in }\borel}
$$

Denote the left member by $\cl{Y}$, so $Y = \bigcup_{E\in\mathcal{A}}E$. the closure of $Y$ is a closed set that contains each $E\in\mathcal{A}$, therefore it contains each $\cl{E}\in\borel$. So it contains the 'region' covered by elements in $\borel$.

$$
\cl{Y}\supseteq \text{region covered by elements in }\borel
$$

show reverse inclusion? if $x$ is not in the right member. By local finiteness ( we do not require any special properties of $x$ yet),  there exists an open neighbourhood $U$ of $x$ that intersects finitely many $E_1,\ldots E_n\in\mathcal{A}$.

Since $x$ is not an adherent point of all $E_j$, for each of the finite $j = 1,\ldots n$, there exists an open $U_j$ containing $x$, that 'blocks out' all the points from $E_j$. more precisely:

$$
U_j\cap E_j=\varnothing
$$

define $$V = \underbrace{U\cap U_1\cap \cdots \cap U_n}_{\text{finitely many}}$$, then this neighbourhood of $x$ must intersect no point in $E_\alpha$. So $x$ cannot be an adherent point of $\bigcup_{E\in\mathcal{A}} E$, and the proof is complete.

#### Definition: countably locally finite
A collection $\borel$ is **countably locally finite** if it is the countable union of *locally finite* families. 

$$
\borel = \underbrace{\bigcup_{\nat}}_{\text{countable union}}\underbrace{\borel_{n}}_{\text{locally finite collection}}
$$

**Each $\borel_n$ is not necessarily countable, there is no restriction on the cardinality of the families $\borel_n$**

#### Definition: refinements
Let $\mathcal{A}$ be a collection  of sets. $\borel$ **refines** $\mathcal{A}$, when every element $B\in\borel$, induces an $A$ from $\mathcal{A}$, with $B\subseteq A$.

This is different than Lemma 13.3, where a condition is given for topologies $\Tau$, $\Tau'$ generated from bases $\borel$, $\borel'$ to be finer/coarser. In Lemma 13.3, $\Tau'$ is finer than $\Tau$, iff

- each point $x\in B\in\borel$ induces a $B'\in\borel'$ that squeezes in between:

$$
    x\in B'\subseteq B
$$

In Lemma 13.3, we choose the set from $\borel$ (the coarser family), while in refinements, we choose from the 'finer' family first.

## Lemma 39.2
If $\xx$ is a metrizable space, and $\mathcal{A}$ is an open covering of $\xx$, there exists an open covering $\Epsilon$ of $\xx$ refining $\mathcal{A}$ that is countably locally finite.