---
layout: post
title: Folland Theorem 2.40
tags: ['folland','integration','fubini']
---
## is is possible to generalize 2.40 to other measures?

if the indexing set for $\prod_{\alpha\in A}\xx_\alpha$ is uncountable, then the so called measurable rectangles are not guaranteed to be measurable
$$
\prod_{\alpha\in A}E_\alpha\quad E_\alpha\in\mcal_{\alpha},\:\forall\alpha\in A
$$
since the sigma-algebra only guarantees countable intersections of inverse images of 'measurable strips' like $\pnv{\alpha}{E_\alpha}$

Extra: if $A$ is infinite (not necessarily uncountable), then the countable product of open sets might not necessarily be open again (in fact, almost always not open, except when the topologies are very special)

And if $A$ is uncountable, from Prop 0.20, the sum of uncountably many, strictly positive numbers has to blow up, no matter how small they are. So no $\varepsilon$ proof works to get the estimate for the infimum and supremum.

Note: 2.40b requires completion of the measure.
For points a, and c: can be generalized to any non-negative 'Borel' measure.

Similar to the construction in 1.15.
If you have a pointwise strictly positive, strictly positive jacobian, continuous functin on R^n, then it defines a measure through integration with it. (Subject to other technical conditions).

To add to this: 
It is possible to define a pre-measure on n-cells (products of closed intervals) through this, which is finite on all compact sets. And the completion of this measure will satisfy properties a, b, c.

## Guidance on Part C



first notice: if $k=1,\ldots,n$, and $A_k\subseteq\real$, st $0\leq A_k<+\infty$, then 

$$
\prod_{k=1}^n \sup A_k = \sup \biggl\{\underbrace{\prod_{k=1}^n  A_k}_{\text{multiply elementwise}}\biggr\}
$$

Now, if $m(E)<+\infty$, then it can be approximated (from above) by open rectangles. Countably many of them, denoted by $U_j$.

$$
m(E)<+\infty\implies\forall \varepsilon>0, \: \sum_{j\geq 1}m(U_j)<m(E)+\varepsilon
$$

Each $U_j = \prod_{k=1}^n \operatorname{side}(j,k)$ this is from how we defined the product measure (measurable rectangles, which contain open rectangles, form a elementary family)\\

Here is how we pass the argument to each $\real$.

# Argument in $\real$:

$$
\mu\biggl(\prod_{k=1}^n\operatorname{side}(j,k)\biggr)=\prod_{k=1}^n\mu_k(\operatorname{side}(j,k))
$$

Each $\operatorname{side}(j,k)$ is an open set in $\real$. Every open set in $\real$ is the countable union of open intervals (also known as balls). Let us define $A = \operatorname{side}(j,k)$ to avoid needless distractions, so $A$ is open in $\real$, $A$ induces a countable sequence of open, subsets of itself... if $P_i$ is this sequence of open sets, then $\cup_{j=1}^i P_j$ is an increasing sequence, so 

$$
\mu(A)=\lim_{i\to\infty} \sum_{j=1}^i P_j
$$

Therefore $\mu(A)=\sup\bigset{\text{finite sums of measures of open intervals of } A}$, now pass it back to the rectangle $U_j\subseteq\real^n$. Using the supremum product equation.

So for each $U_j$ (open rectangle in $\real^n$), and pick $\varepsilon 2^{-j}>0$, there exists another open set $V_j$, whose sides are finite unions of rectangles such that

$$
m(V_j)\geq m(U_j)-\varepsilon2^{-j}
$$

Notice from Analysis 2 (convergence of series). If $\sum_{j=1}m(U_j)<+\infty$, then its tail must vanish as well. So pick $\varepsilon>0$, there exists some $N\in\nat$, such that 

$$
\mu\biggl(\bigcup_{j\geq N} U_j\biggr)\leq \sum_{j\geq N}m(U_j)<+\varepsilon
$$

For open rectangles $U_j$, for $j=1,\ldots,N$, by subadditivity, then by the rectangle argument earlier with $m(V_j)\geq m(U_j) - \varepsilon 2^{-j}$

$$
\mu\biggl(\bigcup_{j=1}^N U_j\setminus V_j  \biggr)\leq \sum_{j=1}^N(\text{dont care}) \leq \sum_{j\geq 1}\varepsilon2^{-j}\leq \varepsilon
$$

Then by subadditivity again you get the second last equation from the book.

The last equation from the book is by monotonicity of each $V_j\subseteq U_j$, and because 

$$
\mu\biggl(\bigcup_{j\geq 1}U_j\biggr)\leq\sum_{j\geq 1}m(U_j)<\mu(E)+\varepsilon
$$

Where $\bigcup_{j\geq 1} U_j\supseteq E$, so we can subtract $m(E)$ over, as $m(E)$ is finite, so this proves the last equation. As for 'changing' the finite union of $\bigcup_{j=1}^NV_j$ into a finite disjoint union of rectangles whose sides are intervals...

i know how it works but I am trihng to find the section where folland says it

I think what he wanted to do was just handwave the core argument of...

If you have a finite number of $V_j\subseteq\real^n$, where each of the sides of $V_j$ are finite union of open intervals, then you can take all of these the:


> finite number of open intervals that make up the finitely many sides that make up the finitely many  $V_j$



then mix and match them, while removing the parts that are overlapping by taking complements, because the class of intervals (we allow for rounded and square brackets), are closed under intersections and differences.. there is a way to sequence them so they are precisely disjoint rectnagles whose sides may or may not be open intervals, but are intervals in general.

From this you will probably feel like the sections where he focuses on $\real^n$ are kind of handwavy compared to the rest of the sections. This is kind of true but most classes in measure theory that focus on the real line also handwaves these arguments about the endpoints of the intervals as well.

The entire proof is straight-forward until the end, where he switches the finite union of $V_j$ with finite disjoint union of rectangles whose sides are intervals.

Focus on the 'bridges' of the proof, 

- the supremum of the products is equal to the product of the supremums
- passing monotonicity from below on $\real\to\real^n$
- how we passed an estimate (inequality) about $\cup U_j\setminus V_j$ to $E\setminus \cup V_j$


After this part, we just have a bunch of finite things and numbers, so we apply the usual triangle inequality on measures (subadditivity and Exercise 1.12) to make the argument $3\varepsilon$ tight