---
layout: post
title: MF
date: 2023-06-21 04:48
category: math
---
The study of differential geometry begins with tens of pages of
definitions.

# wts
[]{#lee-chp4:rank-theorem-for-manifolds
label="lee-chp4:rank-theorem-for-manifolds"} Let $F:M\to N$ be a smooth
map with constant rank $r$, then at every $p\in M$, there exists smooth
charts $p\in (U,\phi)$ and $F(U)\subseteq(V,\psi)$, where the coordinate
representation of $F$ takes the form 

$$\begin{aligned}
\label{lee-chp4:rank-theorem-regular-case-coordinate-representation}
        \hat{F}(x) &= \begin{bmatrix}
            \id{r\times r} & 0_{r\times m-r}\\
            0_{n-r\times r} & 0_{n-r\times m-r}
        \end{bmatrix}x, && \qq{or equivalently}\\[2ex]
        \hat{F}(x^1,\ldots,x^r,x^{r+1},\ldots,x^m)&=(x^1,\ldots,x^r)
    
\end{aligned}$$
:::

# proof
*Proof.* Tedious. However, some techinques are worth remembering:

-   Passing the argument to the Euclidean case as usual,

-   We are free to shrink the sizes of open cubes and balls, and exploit
    local compactness,

-   Suppose we are given a matrix of size $m\times n$, which has rank
    $r$, then we can attach a sub-matrix to make it square and
    invertible, then rehearse the usual arguments with the Inverse
    Function Theorems to obtain a neighbourhood small enough that
    preserves the rank of the square matrix. Then pass the argument back
    to the smaller sub-matrix.

The last bullet point is worth elaborating, suppose we are given a
rectangular matrix, where $A$ is square and invertible. Take
$z = (x,y)^T$ with dimensions that make the formulas below make sense.
$$Mz = \begin{bmatrix}
            A & B
        \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}
            x\\ y
        \end{bmatrix}\implies \begin{bmatrix}
            M\\ I
        \end{bmatrix}(z,y)^T = \begin{bmatrix}
            A & B\\ 0 & I
        \end{bmatrix}\begin{bmatrix}
            z\\ y
        \end{bmatrix}\qqtext{is square and invertible}$$ by , we see
that there exists a neighbourhood about the square matrix
$\begin{bmatrix} M\\ I\end{bmatrix}$ such that it remains invertible,
hence a neighbourhood about $M$ that makes $A$ invertible (as a
sub-matrix), so the rank of $M$ is preserved. ◻
:::

# corollary
Let $F: M\to N$ be a smooth map with constant rank. If $F$ is a smooth
immersion, then takes the form: $$\begin{aligned}
\label{lee-chp4:rank-theorem-smooth-immersion-case-coordinate-representation}
        \hat{F}(x) &= \begin{bmatrix}
            \id{m\times m} \\
            0_{n-m\times m} 
        \end{bmatrix}x, && \qq{or equivalently}\\[2ex]
        \hat{F}(x^1,\ldots,x^m)&=(x^1,\ldots,x^m,0\ldots,0)
    
\end{aligned}$$ If $F$ is a smooth submersion, $$\begin{aligned}
\label{lee-chp4:rank-theorem-smooth-submersion-case-coordinate-representation}
        \hat{F}(x) &= \begin{bmatrix}
            \id{n\times n} & 0_{n\times m-n}
        \end{bmatrix}x, && \qq{or equivalently}\\[2ex]
        \hat{F}(x^1,\ldots,x^n,x^{n+1},\ldots,x^m)&=(x^1,\ldots,x^n)
    
\end{aligned}$$
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-chp4:characterization-smooth-immersion
label="lee-chp4:characterization-smooth-immersion"} $F$ is a smooth
immersion iff every point $p\in M$ has a neighbourhood $U\subseteq M$
where $F|U:U\to N$ is a smooth embedding.
:::

# proof
*Proof.* We will prove it for when $M$ and $N$ are smooth manifolds, see
Lee for the full proof with boundary. It involves extending the argument
by composing $F$ with an inclusion map. From Lemma 3.11 (Lee), if
$a\in \partial\halfn$, then the differential of the inclusion map
$\iota:\halfn\to\realn$ is a linear isomorphism between tangent spaces.
$$d\iota_a:T_a\halfn\to T_a\realn,\quad \underbracket{T_a\halfn\cong T_a\realn}_{\text{isomorphic}}$$
If for every $p\in M$, there exists a neighbourhood $U$ of $p$ with
$F|U: U\to N$ a smooth embedding, then $dF|U_p$ has rank $m$, so $dF_p$
has rank $m$, and the differential is injective pointwise everywhere.
Conversely, if $dF_p$ is a smooth immersion, the Rank Theorem () tells
us there exists connected neighbourhoods of $p$ and $F(p)$, where $F$
has coordinate representation in with respect to an appropriate choice
of coordinate charts centered at $p$, so $\hat{F}(\hat{p})=0\in\realn$.
Let $\hat{p}\in \hat{U}$ and $\hat{F}(\hat{p})\in \hat{V}$, the proof
then devolves into a linear-map problem. $\hat{F}$ given by the
expression in is clearly injective. Therefore it is bijective onto its
range, its inverse is nothing but the map that removes the extra zeroes
at the end. Therefore $F|U$ is a smooth embedding. ◻
:::

::: definition
[]{#lee-chp4:section-of-continuous-map
label="lee-chp4:section-of-continuous-map"} If $\pi: M\to N$ is a
continuous map, a *section of $\pi$* is a continuous right inverse for
$\pi$, i.e $\sigma:N\to M$, $\sigma\in C(N,M)$,
$\pi\circ\sigma=\id{N}$.\
A *local section for $\pi$* is a continuous function $\sigma$ from an
open set $U\subseteq V$ into $M$ with $\pi\circ\sigma=\id{U}$.
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-chp4:characterization-of-smooth-submersion
label="lee-chp4:characterization-of-smooth-submersion"} Let $\pi:M\to N$
be smooth, then $\pi$ is a smooth submersion iff every point of $M$ is
in the image of a smooth local section of $\pi$.
:::

# proof
*Proof.* Suppose $\pi$ is a smooth submersion, and fix $p\in M$, by the
Rank Theorem , and , $\pi$ has the coordinate representation
$$\hat{\pi}(x^1,\ldots,x^n,x^{n+1},x^m)=(x^1,\ldots,x^n)$$ between two
open sets $U\subseteq M$ and $V\subseteq N$, (it really does not
matter). Now, define
$$\sigma: V\to M, (x^1,\ldots,x^n)\mapsto \underbracket{(x^1,\ldots,x^n,0,\ldots,0)}_{\realm}\in U$$
the charts by assumption are centered, and $\pi\circ\sigma$ is clearly
smooth (check coordinatewise), so $\sigma$ reaches $p$. Conversely,
recall if the composition of maps $(g\circ f)$ is a surjection, then $g$
is a surjection. Now, fix $p\in M$, this induces an open set $V$
containing $\pi(p)$, and a smooth local section $\sigma_V: V\to M$. By ,
*the differential of a composition is equal to the composition of the
differentials*
$$\id{T_{q}N}=d(\id{U})=d(\pi)_{\sigma(q)}\circ d(\sigma)_{q}$$ so
$d(\pi)_{\sigma{q}} = d(\pi)_{p}$ is a surjection and the proof is
complete. ◻
:::

If $F:\xx\to\yy$, and $c\in \yy$, we call the $F^{-1}(\{y\})$ a *level
set at $c$*, and $c$ the *level value*. We often write $F^{-1}(y)$ in
place of $F^{-1}(\{y\})$. If $\yy=\realk$, then $F^{-1}(0)$ is the *zero
set of $F$*.

::: definition
$p\in M$ is a *critical point* of $F$ if the differential
$dF_p:T_pN\to T_{F(p)}M$ fails to be surjective at $p$, otherwise $p$ is
a *regular point* of $F$.
:::

::: definition
Let $f$ be a test function on $N$, $c\in\real$ is a critical value if
there exists a $p\in f^{-1}(c)$ where $df_p$ is not surjective.\
Otherwise $c$ is called a regular value. Caveat: if $c$ is not in the
image of $f$, we call $c$ a regular value as well. It is clear $c$ is a
regular value iff $c\notin f(M)$ or for every $p\in f^{-1}(c)$, $df_p$
is a surjection.\
Notice $df_p: T_pN\to T_{f(p)}\real$ is not surjective $\iff$ all
partials of the coordinate representation of $f$ vanish. Since the
matrix representation of $df_p$ has the form
$$\mcal\{df_p\}=\mqty[\eval{\pdv{f}{x^1}}_{p} & \ldots & \eval{\pdv{f}{x^m}}_{p}]$$
$\rank\mcal\{df_p\}\neq 1 \iff \eval{\pdv{f}{x^j}}_{p}=0$ for
$1\leq j\leq m$.
:::

::: definition
If $c$ is a regular value of $f$, then $f^{-1}(c)$ is called a regular
level set.\
Define $g = f-c$, the partials at $p\in N$ for both $f$ and $g$ agree,
so the matrix representations of $df_p$ and $dg_p$ are identical
(whereas their ranges might not be), $$\begin{aligned}
        \mcal\{dg_p\}&=\mqty[\eval{\pdv{g}{x^1}}_{p} & \ldots & \eval{\pdv{g}{x^m}}_{p}]\\[2ex]
        &=\mqty[\eval{\pdv{f-c}{x^1}}_{p} & \ldots & \eval{\pdv{f-c}{x^m}}_{p}]\\[2ex]
        &=\mqty[\eval{\pdv{f}{x^1}}_{p} & \ldots & \eval{\pdv{f}{x^m}}_{p}]\\[2ex]
        &= \mcal\{df_p\}
    
\end{aligned}$$
:::

::: definition
[]{#lee-chp5:embedded-submanifold label="lee-chp5:embedded-submanifold"}
A subset $S$ of $M$ is called an *embedded submanifold of $M$*, when:

-   equipped with the subspace topology from $M$,

-   it has a smooth structure that makes it a smooth manifold, and

-   the inclusion map $\iota: S\hookrightarrow M$ is a smooth embedding.
:::

::: definition
[]{#lee-measure-zero label="lee-measure-zero"} A subset
$E\subseteq\realn$ has *measure zero* if $\mu(E)=0$
$$\mu(E) = \inf\bigset{\sum_{j\geq 1} m(U_j),\: E\subseteq \bigcup U_j,\: U_j\in\mcal}$$
where $\mcal$ denotes the Borel $\sigma$-algebra on $\realn$. Each $U_j$
can be taken to be open/closed balls or cubes, as they are measurable.\
We sometimes refer to a measure zero set as *null*. If $M$ is a smooth
manifold of dimension $m$, then $E\subseteq M$ has *measure zero* if for
every chart $(U,\varphi)\in\mathcal{A}_M$,
$$\varphi(U\cap E)\subseteq\realm\quad\text{has measure zero in }\realm$$
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-sards-subadditivity label="lee-sards-subadditivity"} The
countable union of null sets is again null. Any measurable subset of a
null set is again null. This holds for $\realn$ and the smooth manifold
case.
:::

# proof
*Proof.* See any textbook on the theory of integration. ◻
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-theorem6.2 label="lee-theorem6.2"} Suppose $A\subseteq\realn$ is
compact (not necessary), and for every $c\in \real$, define the
$c$-section of $A$ $$A_c = \bigset{x\in\real^{n-1},\: (c,x)\in A}$$ If
$A_c$ has measure zero in $\real^{n-1}$ for every $c\in\real$, then $A$
has measure zero
:::

# proof
*Proof.* By Tonelli's Theorem, since the Lebesgue measure on
$\borel_\realn$ is a Radon measure, it is finite on compact sets. Hence
$$\mu(A)=\int fd\mu_n = \int \chi_{A}d\mu_1\times\cdots\times\mu_n$$
where $f(c) = \int \chi_{A_c}d\mu_1\times\cdots\times\mu_{n-1}$ is $0$
for all $c$, hence $\int fd\mu_n$ integrates to zero. ◻
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-theorem6.6 label="lee-theorem6.6"} Let $E\subseteq M$, if
$\{(U_\alpha,\: \varphi_\alpha)\}$ is a collection of charts that cover
$A$, and $\varphi_\alpha(E\cap U_\alpha)$ has measure zero for every
$\alpha$, then $E$ has measure zero.
:::

# wts
[]{#lee-theorem6.9 label="lee-theorem6.9"} If $F\in\cinf[M,N]$, and
$A\subseteq M$ has measure zero, so does $F(A)$. In particular, this
holds for $F\in\cinf[\realm,\realn]$ with the standard smooth
structures.
:::

::: lemma
[]{#lee-regular-critical-points label="lee-regular-critical-points"} Let
$M$ and $N$ be smooth manifolds, and $F\in\cinf[M,N]$. Then,

1.  The set of regular points of $F$ are open in $M$.

2.  The set of critical points of $F$ are closed in $M$.

3.  The set of critical values of $F$ are precisely the direct image of
    its critical points. In symbols:
    $$\label{lee-critical-values-image-of-critia-points}
                \text{Critical Values} = F(\text{critical points})$$
:::

::: lemma
[]{#lee-critical-points-local label="lee-critical-points-local"} Let
$p\in M$, and if $p\in (U,\varphi)$, $F(U)\subseteq(V,\psi)$. Then the
rank of $dF_p$ is independent of the choice of coordinate charts used,
and it is equal to the rank of $d\hat{F}_{\hat{p}}$. Where $\hat{F}$ is
the coordinate representation of $F$ with respect to the charts
$(U,\: \varphi)$ and $(V,\psi)$.
$$\hat{F}:\varphi(U)\to\psi(V)\quad \hat{F}\defined \psi\circ F\circ \varphi^{-1}$$
Moreover, if $p$ a critical point of $F$, it is also a critical point of
$F|_{U'}:U'\to V'$. Where $U'$ is an open subset of $U$, and $V'$ is an
open subset of $V$ that contains $F(U')$ entirely.
:::

::: lemma
[]{#lee-sards-LCH label="lee-sards-LCH"} Let $\xx$ be a LCH space.
Suppose $x\in \xx$, and $U$ is an open set containing $x$. There exists
an open precompact neighbourhood about $x$ that *hides in $U$*. If $V$
denotes this neighbourhood, then $$x\in V\subseteq\cl{V}\subseteq U$$
:::

::: lemma
[]{#lee-covering-lemmas label="lee-covering-lemmas"} The following holds
for an arbitrary $m$.

1.  If $U\subseteq\realm$ is an open set, it can be covered by

    -   countably many open balls,

    -   countably many open cubes,

    -   countably many closed balls,

    -   countably many closed cubes,

    all of the above are subsets of $U$.

2.  If $E\subseteq\realm$ is a closed cube with side length $R$, then it
    can be covered by $K^m$ many closed cubes with equal side lengths
    $R'=RK^{-1}$.
:::

::: lemma
[]{#lee-diffeomorphisms-invariance
label="lee-diffeomorphisms-invariance"} Let $M$, $N$, $P$, $Q$ be smooth
manifolds. Let $F\in\cinf[M,N]$, and $G\in\diffeo[M,M]$,

1.  If $p\in M$, define $H = F\circ G$, then

    -   $\rank dF_p = \rank dH_p$,

    -   $p$ is a critical point of $F$ iff it is a critical point of
        $H$,

    -   $E\subseteq M$ has measure zero iff $G(E)$ has measure zero,

    -   topological properties are preserved (applies for homeomorphisms
        $G$). $E$ is compact, open, closed, connected or path-connected
        iff $G(E)$ is.

2.  Let $H\in\diffeo[Q,M]$, if $U$ is an open subset of $Q$, then
    $H|_{U}:U\to H(U)$ is again a diffeomorphism, where $U$ and $H(U)$
    are interpreted as open-submanifolds of $Q$ and $M$.
:::

# wts
Let $M$ and $N$ be smooth manifolds with dimensions $m$ and $n$, then
the set of critical values of $F$ has measure-zero in $N$.
:::

The proof for Sard's Theorem is extremely long. We will use induction on
the dimension of $M$. The base case will be divided into two sub-cases,
one where $n=0$ and $n\geq 1$.\

::: step
Let $G\in\cinf[P,N]$ where $P$ and $N$ are smooth manifolds with
dimensions $p = 0$ and $n\geq 1$. The set of critical values of $G$ have
measure zero in $N$.
:::

As we will soon see, the induction hypothesis allows us to use several
dimension reduction techniques to prove the induction step. These
techniques will depend on the rank theorem.

::: step
Let $G\in\cinf[P,N]$ where $P$ and $N$ are smooth manifolds with
dimensions $0\leq p\leq m-1$ and $n\geq 1$. The set of critical values
of $G$ have measure zero in $N$.
:::

The induction step is extremely fussy. First, we dissect the domain and
range of $M$ and $N$ into countably many charts
$\{((U_{jk}, \varphi_{jk}),(V_{jk},\psi_{jk})\}_{j,k\geq 1}$ where

$$\label{lee-sards-Ujk-Vjk-spec}
    F(U_{jk})\subseteq V_{jk}$$ that also cover $M$ and $N$.\
By , if $p$ is a critical point of $F$ and $p\in U_{jk}$, then $p$ is a
critical point of $$\label{lee-sards-Fjk-spec}
    F_{jk}: U_{jk}\to V_{jk}$$

::: step
[]{#lee-sards-construction-charts label="lee-sards-construction-charts"}
We construct a countable sequence of
$\{((U_{jk}, \varphi_{jk}),(V_{jk},\psi_{jk})\}_{j,k\geq 1}$ charts that
satisfy .
:::

# proof
*Proof.* Let $\{(U_\alpha, \varphi_\alpha)\}$ be the maximal smooth
atlas on $M$. Each $U_\alpha$ is open in $M$, and $M$ is
second-countable. It follows that there exists a countable open cover
(indexed by $j\geq 1$) that covers $M$, and a countable smooth atlas
$\{(U_j, \varphi_j)\}$. Similarly for $\{(V_k,\psi_k)\}$.\
Let us write $U_{jk}\defined U_j\cap F^{-1}(V_k)$. Note $U_{jk}$ is
open, since smoothness implies continuity (Proposition 2.4). And
$$(V_{jk}, \psi_{jk})\defined (V_k, \psi_k)\quad F_{jk}=F|_{U_{jk}}$$ so
$F_{jk}(U_{jk})\subseteq V_{jk}$. Finally, define
$\varphi_{jk}=\varphi_j|_{U_{jk}}$. ◻
:::

Using , smooth maps preserve measure-zero sets. If the critical values
of some $F_{jk}$ have measure zero in $N_{jk}$, then so does
$\iota(\text{critical points of } F_{jk})$, where is the smooth
$\iota: N_{jk}\hookrightarrow N$ is the inclusion map (which is a smooth
embedding by ). Thus,

::: step
Prove the following $$\begin{aligned}
    &F(\text{critical points of } F)\: \text{has measure zero}
    \\ &\iff
    \text{For } j,k\geq 1,\quad F_{jk}(\text{critical points of }F_{jk})\:\text{ null in } V_{jk}\subseteq N
    \\&\iff 
    \text{For } j,k\geq 1,\quad \hat{F}_{jk}(\text{critical points of }\hat{F}_{jk})\:\text{ null in } \psi_{jk}(V_{jk})\subseteq \realn
\end{aligned}$$

where $\hat{F}_{jk}$ denotes the coordinate representation of $F$ with
respect to the charts $(U_{jk}, \varphi_{jk})$ and $(V_{jk},\psi_{jk})$.
$$F_{jk}:\varphi_{jk}(U_{jk})\to \psi_{jk}(V_{jk}),\quad \hat{F}_{jk}\defined \psi_{jk}\circ F_{jk}\circ \varphi_{jk}$$
:::

# proof
*Proof.* The first equivalence follows from , and the observation that
the image of $F$ commutes with unions. The second follows from . ◻
:::

To simplify the problem even further, we assume $U_{jk}$ and $V_{jk}$
are open subsets of $\realm$ and $\realn$, as the core of the
'measure-zero' argument is invariant under diffeomorphisms of the
coordinate charts (see ). Let $j,k$ be fixed, and relabel
$$((U_{jk},\varphi_{jk}),\: (V_{jk},\psi_{jk}))\mapsto ((U,\varphi),\: (V,\psi))\qqtext{and} F_{jk}\mapsto F$$
similarly for $\hat{F}_{jk}\mapsto \hat{F}$.

::: step
Let $U$ and $V$ be open sub-manifolds of $M$ and $N$, and $\varphi$ and
$\psi$ be global (smooth) charts.
$$F(\text{critical points of } F) = (\psi^{-1}\circ \hat{F}\circ \varphi)(\text{critical points of }F)$$
and
$$\text{critical points of }F = \varphi^{-1}(\text{critical points of } \hat{F})$$
:::

# proof
*Proof.* The first equation follows from the definition of $\hat{F}$,
after unboxing the domains and ranges. ◻
:::

We again relabel:
$$U\mapsto \varphi(U),\quad V\mapsto \psi(V),\quad F\mapsto \hat{F}$$

and $M\mapsto \realm$, $N\mapsto \realn$, and critical points of $F$.
Now $F: U\to V$ is a smooth map between open subsets of $\realm$ and
$\realn$. Let us state the goal of the induction.

::: step
[]{#lee-sards-simplified-induction-hypothesis
label="lee-sards-simplified-induction-hypothesis"} Let
$U\subseteq\realm$ and $V\subseteq\realn$ be open subsets.
$F\in\cinf[U,\realn]$ is a smooth map. Where $\realm$ and $\realn$ are
considered to be smooth manifolds with the standard smooth structure.
Prove that the set of critical values of $F$ have measure zero.
:::

We define some standard notation for partials.

-   $\nat_0\defined\{0,1,\ldots\}$,

-   $\alpha$ is a *$m$-multi-index* or a *multi-index of order $m$* if
    $\alpha = (\alpha_1,\ldots,\alpha_m)$ is a $m$-tuple with entries in
    $\nat_0$. The set of $m$-multi-indices are denoted by $\nat_0^m$.

-   The order of a multi-index $\alpha$, denoted by $|\alpha|$ is its
    $l^1$ norm. In symbols: $$|\alpha|=\sum |\alpha_j|$$

-   If $g\in\cinf[\realm,\real]$, and $\alpha\in\nat_0^m$, we define
    $$\partial^\alpha g\defined \qty(\pdv{x^1})^{\alpha_1}\cdot\:\cdots\:\cdot\qty(\pdv{x^m})^{\alpha_m}$$
    so that
    $\partial^\alpha \defined \prod_{1}^m\qty(\pdv{x^j})^{\alpha_j} = \prod_{j=1}^m\partial_j^{\alpha_j}$.

Let $C\subseteq U$ denote the set of critical points of $F$, we
decompose $F(C)$ into the following $$\label{lee-sards-decompose-C}
    F(C) = F(C\setminus C_1) + \bigcup_{j=1}^{k-1} F(C_j\setminus C_{j+1}) + F(C_k)$$

and show each of the three sets in the union have measure zero. (the
direct image commutes with unions). Where
$$C_k \defined\bigset{x\in C,\: \forall i\leq n,\:\alpha\in\nat_0^m,\:|\alpha|\leq k,\: \partial^\alpha F^i(x)=0}$$
and $F^i$ are the *component functions* of $F$, or
$F(x) = (F^{1}(x),\ldots,\: F^{n}(x))$.

::: step
$C$, $C_k$ is closed for every $k\geq 1$, and
$U\supseteq C\supseteq C_1\supseteq C_2\supseteq \cdots$.
:::

# proof
*Proof.* $C$ is closed by . The function
$$h(x)\defined \sum_{{\substack{\alpha\in\nat_0^m\\ |\alpha|\leq k\\ i=1,\ldots,n}}}|\partial^\alpha F^i(x)|$$
is a continuous map from $U\to\real$. and $h^{-1}(0)\cap C$ is closed by
continuity. $C\supseteq C_1$ follows by definition of $C_1$, and
$C_k\supseteq C_{k+1}$ follows from comparing $h$ for the two values of
$k$. ◻
:::

We will now prove $F(C\setminus C_1)$ has measure zero. Let
$a\in C\setminus C_1$, noting that $U\setminus C_1$ is an open set
containing $a$. Since $a\notin C_1$, there exists a first order
non-vanishing partial for a component function of $F$. Suppose
$$\pdv{x^j}F^{i}(a)\neq 0\qqtext{with respect to the standard charts}$$
We wish to swap the columns and rows of the coordinate charts so that
$\pdv{x^1}F^{-1}(a)\neq 0$. More concretely, the transposition of the
$i$th and the $1$st row is a permutation; so is the transposition of the
$j$th and the $1$st column. By invariance, we are free to relabel
$$F\mapsto P_{i,1}\circ F\circ P_{j,1}$$ Next, we use a convenient
change of coordinates, to arrive at the form described below.

::: step
Perform a change of coordinates, such that if
$(u,v^2,\ldots,v^m) = (u,v)$, where $v\in\real^{n-1}$, then
$$\label{lee-sards-eq-6.2a}
        F(u,v) = (u,F^2(u,v), \ldots, F^n(u,v))$$ and the differential
is given by $$\label{lee-sards-eq-6.2b}
        dF_{(u,v)} = \begin{bmatrix}
            1&0\\ \eval{\pdv{F^i}{u}}_{(u,v)} & \eval{\pdv{F^i}{v^j}}_{(u,v)}
        \end{bmatrix}\quad \substack{i=2,\ldots,n\\ j=2,\ldots,m}$$
where $dF_{(u,v)}$ is not surjective for each
$(u,v)\in C\setminus C_1\subseteq C$. This change of coordinates is
valid on some open, precompact set containing $a$, denoted by $V_a$.
More precisely $$\label{lee-sards-precompact}
    a\in V_a\subseteq\cl{V}_a\subseteq B\subseteq U\setminus C_1$$
:::

# proof
*Proof.* If $(x^1,\ldots,x^m)$ are the standard coordinates of $\realm$,
the map
$$T: (x^1,\ldots,x^m)\mapsto (F^1(a),x^2,\ldots,x^m)\quad\text{is a diffeomorphism}$$
on some open, precompact neighbourhood $V_a$ of $a$.
$$a\in V_a\subseteq \cl{V_a}\subseteq U$$

The Jacobian of $T$ is given by
$$\operatorname{Jacobian}(T)(x)=\begin{bmatrix}
            \pdv{F^1}{x^1}(x) & \cdots \\ * & Id_{m-1}
        \end{bmatrix}$$ and it is invertible at $a$. The continuity of
$\pdv{F^1}{x^1}$ at $a$ gives us an open ball
$B\subseteq U\setminus C_1$ containing $a$, on which
$\pdv{F^1}{x^1}\neq 0$. Let $V_a\subseteq\cl{V}_a\subseteq B$ be an
open, precompact neighbourhood that hides in this ball as in .\
Next, we absorb the change of coordinates into $F$, so
$$F\mapsto (F\circ T^{-1})|_{B}$$ Verification of the is
straightforward, as $$T^{-1}(u,v) = ((F^1)^{-1}(u,v), v^2,\ldots,v^m)$$
$$\begin{aligned}
        (F\circ T^{-1})(u,v) 
        &= \biggl(F^1[(F^1)^{-1}(u,v))], \ldots,\ldots\biggr)\\
        &= (u, F^2(u,v),\ldots, F^n(u,v))
    
\end{aligned}$$ Computing the Jacobian matrix gives , and $V_a$ clearly
satisfies . ◻
:::

Let $a$ range through all points in $C\setminus C_1$, then
$\{C\setminus C_1\cap V_a\}_{a\in C\setminus C_1}$ is an open cover Rel
$C\setminus C_1$, so there exists a countable subcover. We will prove
something slightly stronger, we prove that
$F(C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V_a})$ has measure zero for each $a$ in this
countable collection. will then prove $F(C\setminus C_1)$ is null.\
Notice $C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V_a}$ is a closed subset of $\cl{V_a}$,
hence compact. Continuous functions send compact sets to compact sets,
so $F(C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V_a})$ is compact in $\realn$. We wish to
use the induction hypothesis and 'lower the dimension' of $F$, or at the
very least --- pass the argument to a lower dimension.

::: step
[]{#lee-sards-case1 label="lee-sards-case1"}
:::

# proof
*Proof.* Let $a$ an element in the countable subcollection described
above. Let $c\in\real^{1}$ be arbitrary, if
$$\{c\}\times\real^{n-1}\cap F(C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V}_a)=\varnothing$$
then the $c$-section $E_c$ of $F(C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V}_a)$,

$$E_c \defined \{q\in \real^{n-1},\: (c,q)\in F(C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V}_a)\}$$
is empty, so $E_c$ is null. Next, if $E_c$ is not empty, we will pass
the argument to some
$F_c: \underbracket{B_c}_{\subseteq \real^{m-1}}\to \real^{n-1}$ and
show $E_c$ is *exactly* (double inclusion) the set of critical points of
$F_c$. Indeed, define
$$B_c = \bigset{v,\: (c,v)\in\cl{V}_a}\qqtext{and}F(c,v)=(c,F_c(v))$$ so
$F_c(v) = (F^2(c,v),\ldots,F^{n}(c,v))$ for $v\in B_c$. The Jacobian
(differential) of $F_c$ resembles that of $F$. With $c$ fixed,
$$(dF_c)_v = \begin{bmatrix}
            {v^j}_{(u,v)}
        \end{bmatrix}\quad \substack{i=2,\ldots,n\\ j=2,\ldots,m}$$
Compare the previous equation with , what we have done essentially is
*removing the first column and row* of $dF_{(c,v)}$. By elementary
linear algebraic arguments about canonical forms,
$\rank dF_{(c,v)}\neq n\iff \rank (dF_c)_v\neq n-1$. So
$(c,v)\in C\setminus C_1\cap \cl{V}_a$ if and only if $v$ is a critical
point of $F_c$. ◻
:::

