---
layout: article
title: folland ex 4-55 draft
date: 2023-05-09 16:07
tags: ['topology','LCH','folland','munkres']
---


## Outline:
- Follows Exercise A.55 of Lee (Smooth Manifolds), If $\xx$ is a LCH space, it has a basis of pre-compact open sets. Let $\borel$ a countable basis for $\xx$. By Folland Prop 4.30, each $x\in U$ where $U$ is an open set induces some open, precompact $V(x, U)$ of $x$ that hides in $U$.

$$x\in V\subseteq \cl{V}\subseteq U$$

Let this family of pre-compact open sets range through $x\in U$, and $$\{V(x,U)\}_{x\in U,\: U\in\Tau_\xx}$$ is clearly a basis. We can reduce the cardinality (quite formally) by using the following mechanism.

- If $\xx$ is second countable, then every basis contains a countable basis as a subcollection. This is from Munkres Exercise 30.2. 

Let $$\borel = \{ B_n \}_{n\geq 1}$$ be a countable basis for $\xx$. If $\mcal$ is another basis of $\xx$, we claim that the sub-collection

$$
\cl{\mcal}=\bigset{E\in\mcal,\: B_n\subseteq E\subseteq B_m\: n,m\in\nat^+}
$$

is a basis. The reason why this works, is because $B_m$ ensures the choice of $E = E_{n,m}$ fits into any arbitrary open set. And $B_n$ bounds $E$ from below, as to ensure $E$ contains any point $x$ that we want. To this, fix an open set $U\subseteq\xx$ with $x\in U$. Since $U$ is the union over basis elements in $\borel$, 

$$
x\in E \subseteq B_n\subseteq U
$$

and $B_n$ is open in $\xx$, so it is the union of basis elements in $\mcal$. Hence $x$ lies in some $E$ of $\mcal$. Using the same construct, ($E$ is the union of elements in $\borel$), 

$$
x\in B_m\subseteq E\subseteq B_n\subseteq U
$$

for some $m\in\nat^+$. This forces $E\in\cl{\mcal}$.

- It is clear that if $\xx$ is Hausdorff, any subspace of $\xx$ is again Hausdorff, so any open $U\subseteq\xx$ is open and second countable (with the relative topology). It remains to show that $U$ is locally compact. Indeed, let $x\in U$. So $U$ is a neighbourhood of $x$ Rel $\xx$. By Prop 4.30, this induces a precompact, open (Rel $\xx$) $x\in A\subseteq \cl{A}\subseteq U$. Since $A\subseteq U$, $A$ is precompact, open Rel $U$, and $U$ is locally compact.

- Combining everything above, we see that every open subset of a second countable LCH space is $\sigma$-compact.